Türkiye

World

Middle East

Americas

Europe

Africa

Asia - Pacific

Economy

Politics

Energy

Sports

Infographics

Analysis

Photo

Video

Environment

Education

Life

Culture

Analysis

Health

Science-Technology

Company News

Finance Terminal

Anadolu Images

Energy Terminal

AA Academy

Green Line

Discrimination Line

Fact Check Line

Career AA

Corporate News



WASHINGTON

Former US President Donald Trump said Tuesday that Israel must “finish the problem” in its war against Hamas as he backed the Israeli army's attacks on Gaza.

Asked by a Fox News presenter if he is in “Israel's camp” and whether he is “on board” with the way the Israeli army was “taking the fight to Gaza,” Trump responded: “Yeah. You gotta finish the problem.”

“You've had a horrible invasion that took place,” he said. “It would have never happened if I was president, by the way.”

Asked about Vice President Kamala Harris' call for a cease-fire, the Republican presidential candidate avoided the question.

“I hate seeing what's happening again. It would have never happened — this attack on Israel — and, likewise, Israel's counter attack, which is what it is, would never have happened if I was president.”

Harris criticized Israel for not doing enough to allow aid into Gaza and called for an immediate cease-fire.

“The Israeli government must do more to significantly increase the flow of aid. No excuses,” Harris said, "People in Gaza are starving. The conditions are inhumane and our common humanity compels us to act.”

President Joe Biden, who is running for reelection, is under criticism from progressive Democrats and Muslim and Arab Americans over his “unwavering” support for Israel's war on Gaza, where Israeli attacks have now killed more than 30,000 Palestinians.

A group of Arab and Muslim Americans as well as many progressive Democrats have urged voters to vote "uncommitted" in primaries to protest the Biden administration's Gaza policy, demand a "permanent cease-fire" to Israel's deadly onslaught in the Palestinian enclave, and an end to unconditional US military support for Tel Aviv.

The number of uncommitted votes in last week's primary in Michigan achieved more than 10 times the 10,000-ballot goal set by the protest campaign’s organizers, racking up 13% of the vote.

Biden, who has reaffirmed multiple times Washington’s unwavering support for Israel’s “right to defend itself” after last year’s Oct. 7 attacks by the Palestinian group Hamas, has changed his tone in recent days, gradually ratcheting up pressure on Tel Aviv to take some measures to minimize harm to Palestinian civilians and allow more humanitarian aid into the enclave.

However, the Biden administration is still seeking to send $14 billion worth of additional military aid to Israel, while the US has used its veto power three times to block the UN Security Council from calling for a humanitarian cease-fire in Gaza.

Israel has launched a deadly offensive on the Gaza Strip following a cross-border attack by Hamas on Oct. 7, 2023, which Tel Aviv says killed nearly 1,200 people. The ensuing Israeli bombardment has killed at least 30,631 people and injured 72,043 others with mass destruction and shortages of necessities.

The Israeli war has pushed 85% of Gaza’s population into internal displacement amid acute shortages of food, clean water and medicine, while 60% of the enclave's infrastructure has been damaged or destroyed, according to the UN.

Israel stands accused of genocide at the International Court of Justice. An interim ruling in January ordered Tel Aviv to stop genocidal acts and take measures to guarantee that humanitarian assistance is provided to civilians in Gaza.

History

Editorial Guidelines

Social Media Policies

Executive Team

Domestic Offices

International Offices

Media Center

Communication

RSS

Subscription Requests

Announcement Service

Quality Management

Privacy and Cookies Policy

Information Policy

Diary

Company News

Finance Terminal

Anadolu Images

Energy Terminal

AA Academy

Green Line

Discrimination Line

Fact Check Line

IPhone Application

IPad Application

Android Application

ISRAEL AT WAR - DAY 223

Former US president Donald Trump warned Israelis in an interview published Monday that they were losing support for the war in Gaza, reiterating his call to “finish it up.”

The comments from Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee to take on US President Joe Biden in November’s US election, came as Washington abstained at a UN Security Council vote calling for an immediate ceasefire in the Israel-Hamas war.

“You have to finish up your war. To finish it up. You gotta get it done,” Trump told the Israel Hayom newspaper, notably offering no caveat regarding the hostages still in Gaza during an interview the freesheet said had been recorded over the weekend. Part of the interview waspublishedon Monday, with more expected later in the week.

“And I will say, Israel has to be very careful because you’re losing a lot of the world, you’re losing a lot of support, you have to finish up, you have to get the job done. And you have to get on to peace, to get on to a normal life for Israel, and for everybody else.”

War erupted in Gaza after thousands of Hamas-led terrorists burst across the border into Israel on October 7 by land, air, and sea, killing some 1,200 people and seizing 253 hostages, mostly civilians.

“What I saw October 7 was one of the saddest things I’ve ever seen,” Trump said.



Trump told Israel Hayom he would have responded to Hamas’s attack “very much the same way” Israel did, but expressed concern about the optics of a war in which Israeli strikes have left much of Gaza in ruins.

Trump also appeared to explain the rise in antisemitism in the US since October 7 as a result of images of destruction coming out of Gaza from the ongoing war.

“I think that’s one of the reasons that there has been a lot of kickback,” Trump said when asked about rising hate toward Jews, arguing the Israeli military should not continue to release footage of its strikes.

“If people didn’t see that, every single night… I’ve watched every single one of those. And I think Israel wanted to show that it’s tough, but sometimes you shouldn’t be doing that.”

The rise in antisemitism, he said, is “because you fought back. And I think Israel made a very big mistake. I wanted to call [Israel] and say don’t do it. These photos and shots. I mean, moving shots of bombs being dropped into buildings in Gaza… And I said, ‘Oh, that’s a terrible portrait.’”

Trump also faulted US President Joe Biden for Hamas’s attack on southern Israel, which he claimed the terror group perpetrated “because they have no respect for him.”

Repeating an assertionhe has made in the past, Trump said that Hamas “would have never done that attack if I were there…because they knew there would have been very big consequences.”

Asked about growing tensions between Jerusalem and Washington over the war, Trump said support for Israel in the US has been dropping for the past 15 years.

Back then, “Israel had the strongest lobby,” he said. “If you were a politician, you couldn’t say anything bad about Israel, that would be like the end of your political career. Today, it’s almost the opposite.

“Israel has to get better with the promotional and with the public relations because right now they’re in ruin. They’re being hurt very badly,” Trump said.

He said there are “a lot” of American Jews who “actually fight Israel.” He cited The New York Times as an example, as it is published by the Jewish Ochs-Sulzberger family.

“I’m not Jewish. And yet Israel for me is very important,” Trump said.

The former president has lashed out at Democratic politicians including Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer for criticizing Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

“I think it’s a terrible thing to do,” Trump said of recent remarks by Schumer calling for early elections in Israel.

Trump and Netanyahu have had a checkered relationship, with the former often indicating that he has never forgiven the Israeli premier for congratulating Joe Biden after he defeated Trump in the 2020 election. a result Trump never accepted as legitimate.

Earlier this month, Trump said he would tell Netanyahu tofinish the waragainst Hamas in Gaza “quickly and get back to the world of peace” if he won the election in November.

Trump frequently touts himself as a devoted ally of Israel, pointing to his decision to move the US embassy to Jerusalem and his administration’s role in brokering the 2020 Abraham Accords, which saw Arab countries including the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain normalize ties with Israel.

Palestinians, who claim East Jerusalem as their future capital, have opposed Trump’s policies.

Are you relying on The Times of Israel for accurate and timely coverage right now? If so, please joinThe Times of Israel Community.For as little as $6/month, you will:

We’re really pleased that you’ve readXTimes of Israel articlesin the past month.

That’s why we started the Times of Israel eleven years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.

So now we have a request.Unlike other news outlets, we haven’t put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joiningThe Times of Israel Community.

For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of IsraelAD-FREE, as well as accessingexclusive contentavailable only to Times of Israel Community members.

Thank you,David Horovitz, Founding Editor of The Times of Israel





Profile

Sections

tv

Featured

More From NBC

Follow NBC News

There are no new alerts at this time

PALM BEACH, Fla. — Former President Donald Trump declared Tuesday that Israel must “finish the problem” in its war against Hamas, his most definitive position on the conflict since the terror group killed 1,200 Israelis and took more than 200 hostages on Oct. 7.

“You’ve got to finish the problem,” Trump said on Fox News on Tuesday when asked about the war. “You had a horrible invasion that took place that would have never happened if I was president.”

When asked on the program whether he supported a cease-fire in Gaza, Trump demurred, avoiding an explicit position on Israel’s military effort that has now also left more than 30,000 people dead in Gaza, according to thePalestinian Health Ministry. The likely 2024 Republican nominee has not provided his own position on U.S. or Israel's strategy throughout the five months of the war.

Though a stalwart defender of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s administration during his presidency, Trump has also attempted to strike an anti-war posture on the campaign trail in the last year, attempting to contrast himself from President Joe Biden and his remaining Republican rival, Nikki Haley.

“Frankly, they got soft,” Trump said on Tuesday about the Biden administration, claiming that the aggression by foreign adversaries would not have happened if he were still president.

“That should never have happened. Likewise, Russia would never have attacked Ukraine," he said.

While Tuesday’s comments offered the strongest signal yet from Trump of what direction Israel should take, he has yet to offer specific thoughts or proposals on how much the U.S. should be involved financially, how hostage negotiations should be handled, the plight of Gaza’s civilian population or whether leaders should pursue a one- or two-state solution to the conflict.

Reached for comment by NBC News, the Trump campaign promoted the former president’s record on Israel and blamed Biden for the ongoing turmoil in the Middle East.

“President Trump did more for Israel than any American President in history, and he took historic action in the Middle East that created unprecedented peace,” Karoline Leavitt, Trump’s national press secretary, said in a statement, adding, "When President Trump is back in the Oval Office, Israel will once again be protected, Iran will go back to being broke, terrorists will be hunted down, and the bloodshed will end.”

Just days after Hamas attacked Israel, Trump, in avideoposted from his Mar-a-Lago estate here, declared: “I kept Israel safe. Nobody else will. Nobody else can. And I know all of the players — they can’t do it.”

Trump did lay out a few markers in the three weeks that followed the Hamas attack. He said on Oct. 11 that a future Trump administration would “fully support Israel defeating, dismantling, and permanently destroying the terrorist group Hamas,” while telling the Republican Jewish Coalition later that month that Hamas fighters “will burn forever in the eternal pit of hell." That month, his campaign also said that, if elected again, he would bar Gaza residents from entering the U.S. as part of an expanded travel ban.

In the four-plus months since, however, the former president’s once-ardent public backing of Israel has gone mostly quiet.

That silence has run parallel to Biden increasingly coming under fire from left-wing and Muslim American voters for his support of Israel’s response to the Oct. 7 attack. A coalition of voters is campaigning for Democratic primary voters to vote “uncommitted” or for similar ballot choices, as some backed in Michigan, where the “uncommitted” vote earned more than 13% in last week’s Democratic presidential primary there — a small uptick from the nearly 11% who voted “uncommitted” in the 2012 primary, when then-President Barack Obama ran unopposed.

In recent weeks, the Biden administration has increased its criticism of Israel but has stopped short of cutting off military aid.Biden is currently pushing for a six-week cease-firedeal that includes the release of dozens of hostages still held by Hamas.

The Biden campaign declined a request for comment from NBC News.

In the immediate aftermath of the Oct. 7 attack, Trump expressed his ire at Netanyahu, who congratulated Biden after his 2020 election win, saying the Israeli prime minister had “let us down” by allegedly backing out of what Trump said was supposed to be a joint U.S.-Israel operation to launch the airstrike that killed Iranian Gen. Qassem Soleimani in 2020. Days later,Trump posted to his Truth Social platformthat he stood with the Israeli premier after pushback from some GOP rivals.

Robert Jeffress, an evangelical pastor of a Dallas megachurch and a close Trump ally who led the prayer during the dedication of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem in 2018, told NBC News last month that he was not “concerned about his [Trump’s] position waning on” Israel.

The prominent pastor, who leads a congregation of more than 10,000 in Dallas, met with Trump at Mar-a-Lago in February and discussed the support of evangelicals.

“We would love to hear from President Trump what he’s been saying for the last nine years and that is his unconditional support for the right of Israel to exist,” he said.

Maureen Maldonado, an author and a Christian radio host, said she understood why Trump wasn’t as vocal on Israel as some supporters might expect.

“He’s a friend of Israel,” she said. “It’s all political, and he needs to get into office before anything. He’s got to play the game.”

Vaughn Hillyard reported from Palm Beach and Allan Smith from New York City.

Vaughn Hillyard is a correspondent for NBC News.

Allan Smith is a political reporter for NBC News.

© 2024 NBC UNIVERSAL

Trump made the remarks in an interview with Israeli outlet Israel Hayom.

Former President Donald Trump appeared to blame Israel for antisemitism, saying Israel made a "big mistake" in its response to Hamas' attack on Oct. 7 and is "losing a lot of support" from around the world. But he also noted that he would have responded "very much the same" as Israel did against such an attack.

Sitting down at Mar-a-Lago over the weekend with Israeli outlet Israel Hayom, which is owned by the late major Republican megadonor and casino mogul Sheldon Adelson's family, Trump said "that's because you fought back," when he was asked how he would deal with a wave of antisemitism in the wake of the Israel-Hamas war.

"Well, that's because you fought back. And I think Israel made a very big mistake," Trump reportedly said in a part of the interview that was released only in text, calling attention to the harrowing images from the war released by the Israeli government.

"I wanted to call [Israel] and say don't do it. These photos and shots. I mean, moving shots of bombs being dropped into buildings in Gaza," Trump reportedly continued. "And I said, Oh, that's a terrible portrait. It's a very bad picture for the world. The world is seeing this ... every night, I would watch buildings pour down on people. It would say it was given by the Defense Ministry, and said whoever's providing that, that's a bad image."



When Israel Hayom followed up, claiming terrorists are hiding in buildings, Trump reportedly responded: "Go and do what you have to do. But you don't do that."

"And I think that's one of the reasons that there has been a lot of kickback. If people didn't see that, every single night I've watched every single one of those. And I think Israel wanted to show that it's tough, but sometimes you shouldn't be doing that," the former president continued.

Hamas carried out an unprecedented incursion from Gaza into southern Israel by air, land and sea on Oct. 7, 2023, killing more than 1,200 people and taking 253 others hostage, according to Israeli authorities. More than 31,400 Palestinians have been killed and more than 72,000 others have been injured in Gaza since Oct. 7, amid Israel's ongoing ground operations and aerial bombardment of the strip, according to the Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry.

The Israel Defense Forces has said it is only targeting Hamas and other militants in Gaza and alleges that Hamas deliberately shelters behind civilians, which the group denies.



In another part of the interview, released as a part of a 10-minute edited video, Trump warned Israel that it's "losing a lot of support" from the world and urged it to end the war.

"I will say Israel has to be very careful because you're losing a lot of the world. You're losing a lot of support," Trump said, going beyond his usual line of calling for peace. "But you have to finish up. You have to get the job done. And you have to get on to peace. You have to get on to a normal life for Israel and for everybody else."

When asked how he would react to an attack like that of Hamas on Oct. 7, Trump said he would "act very much the same as you did," saying "you would have to be crazy not to."

Throughout the Israel Hayom interview, Trump blamed President Joe Biden, saying, in part: "But it was an attack that I blame on Biden because they have no respect for him."

Later in the interview, Trump said he believed Israel needs to improve in "public relations," claiming that pro-Israel forces were much stronger in the United States in the past.

The Trump campaign released a statement to ABC News on Monday night saying the former president has "made clear, he fully supports Israel's right to defend itself and eliminate the terrorist threat. He also believes that Israel's interests will be best served by completing this mission as quickly, decisively, and humanely as possible so that the region can return to peace and stability​," the statement read.

The Trump campaign statement also reiterated Trump's campaign trail comments that the Middle East was at peace during his presidency.

On the campaign trail, Trump has branded himself as the most pro-Israel U.S. president in history, often touting his role in the first term moving the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem and claiming he'd stand with Israel "all the way 100% without hesitation" after the Hamas attack last year.

Trump himself has not refrained from making disparaging comments about the war, telling a group of Jewish Republicans in Las Vegas last year: "The conflict between Israel and Hamas is not a conflict between two equal sides. This is a fight between civilization and savagery. Between decency and depravity and between good and evil."

"There can be no sympathy, no excuses and no escape for these monsters and we will do what has to be done," Trump said at the Republican Jewish Coalition conference in Las Vegas.

After he recently faced backlash for saying Jewish Democrats "hate Israel" and "should be ashamed of themselves," Trump again echoed a similar sentiment over the weekend, claiming Jewish Americans should not vote for Democrats.

"I think that means you should never vote for them. How could a Jewish person vote for Kamala Harris?" Trump said, when asked about Vice President Kamala Harris' stepdaughter Ella Emhoff reportedly helping raise money for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), the main U.N. humanitarian organization operating in Gaza and some of whose staff have been accused by Israel of participating in the Oct. 7 attack.

"You might have Kamala Harris if this doesn't work out, you have her right now. If something happened to [Biden], you have her," Trump said.

ISRAEL AT WAR - DAY 224

Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said Thursday that he’s not “loving the way” Israel is prosecuting its war against Hamas in Gaza, again taking issue with what he said has been the IDF’s regular publication of clips showing buildings it has demolished in the enclave.

“What I said very plainly is get it over with, and let’s get back to peace and stop killing people,” Trump said in an interview with conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt. “They have to get it done. Get it over with and get it over with fast because we have to — you have to get back to normalcy and peace.”

“I’m not sure that I’m loving the way they’re doing it,” he continued.

The former US president, who has criticized US President Joe Biden for being insufficiently supportive of Israel, clarified that he wanted Israel to secure “victory.” But he lamented that “it’s taking a long time” and advised Netanyahu to quickly wrap up the war.

Trump specifically criticized Israel’s decision to release footage of its offensive actions, calling them “the most heinous, most horrible tapes of buildings falling down. People are imagining there are a lot of people in those buildings… and they don’t like it… To me, it doesn’t make them look tough. They’re losing the PR war. They’re losing it big.”

“But they’ve got to finish what they started, and they’ve got to finish it fast, and we have to get on with life,” he added.

אוגדה 98 ממשיכה בלחימה במרחב אל אמל והעבסנים בחאן יונס; כוחות צה"ל מאתרים ומשמידים אמצעי לחימה ותשתיות טרור ברצועת עזה

לוחמי צוות הקרב של חטיבה 7 איתרו אמצעי לחימה רבים במרחב חאן יונס >>pic.twitter.com/UTQXJJPJTF

— צבא ההגנה לישראל (@idfonline)April 3, 2024

The comments offered a vivid example of the attention Trump pays to imagery and optics as he measures the cost of war. But they also show the similarities between Trump’s and Biden’s positions, even as Trump has criticized Biden’s handling of the conflict, going so far as to charge that Jews who vote for Democrats “hate Israel” and hate “their religion”Until Thursday, Biden’s administration had broadly backed Israeli efforts to try to remove Hamas’s grip over Gaza, even as he called for a short-term ceasefire to free hostages held by the terror group and surge humanitarian aid. He had also expressed concern that Israel’s operation was isolating it on the world stage.That concern has intensified since an Israeli airstrike this week killed seven World Central Kitchen humanitarian aide workers delivering food in Gaza, adding a new layer of complication to Biden and Netanyahu’s increasingly strained relationship.In a phone call Thursday Biden issued a stark new warning to Israel, telling Netanyahu that future US support for the war depends on new steps to protect civilians and aid workers.Biden “made clear the need for Israel to announce and implement a series of specific, concrete, and measurable steps to address civilian harm, humanitarian suffering, and the safety of aid workers,” the White House said in a statement. He also told Netanyahu that an “immediate ceasefire is essential” and urged Israel to reach a deal “without delay.”AdvertisementThe tougher stance comes as the administration continues to try to dissuade Israel from launching a major offensive against the southern Gaza city of Rafah, where more than a million civilians are sheltering.Biden had issued an unusually sharp statement after the aid workers’ deaths criticizing Israel for not doing more to protect humanitarian workers and civilians and for refusing to allow more food into the Gaza Strip.US President Joe Biden (right) is greeted by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at Ben Gurion International Airport, October 18, 2023. (Evan Vucci/AP)Trump has long labeled himself the most pro-Israel president in the nation’s history and often notes his decision to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem.But Trump has also had a tense relationship with Netanyahu since he left the White House. Though the two were close allies for years, the former president responded with fury after the Israel leader congratulated then-president-elect Biden for winning the 2020 election while Trump was still trying to overturn the results.In interviews for a book about his Middle East peace efforts, Trump, according to the author, used an expletive to describe Netanyahu, accused him of disloyalty and said he believed the Israeli leader never really wanted to make peace.In the immediate aftermath of the October 7 attack by Hamas, Trump drew rare condemnation from his GOP rivals when he lashed out at Netanyahu, saying Israeli leaders needed to “step up their game” and that Netanyahu “was not prepared” for the terror onslaught that killed some 1,200 people. More than 250 people were also taken hostage.At the time, Trump said that he supported the country’s efforts to “crush” Hamas.Trump was also criticized by some in Israel for comments he made to the Israeli newspaper Israel Hayom last month calling for a swift end to the war.Advertisement“I will say Israel has to be very careful because you are losing a lot of the world. You are losing a lot of support,” he had warned.

Until Thursday, Biden’s administration had broadly backed Israeli efforts to try to remove Hamas’s grip over Gaza, even as he called for a short-term ceasefire to free hostages held by the terror group and surge humanitarian aid. He had also expressed concern that Israel’s operation was isolating it on the world stage.

That concern has intensified since an Israeli airstrike this week killed seven World Central Kitchen humanitarian aide workers delivering food in Gaza, adding a new layer of complication to Biden and Netanyahu’s increasingly strained relationship.

In a phone call Thursday Biden issued a stark new warning to Israel, telling Netanyahu that future US support for the war depends on new steps to protect civilians and aid workers.

Biden “made clear the need for Israel to announce and implement a series of specific, concrete, and measurable steps to address civilian harm, humanitarian suffering, and the safety of aid workers,” the White House said in a statement. He also told Netanyahu that an “immediate ceasefire is essential” and urged Israel to reach a deal “without delay.”

The tougher stance comes as the administration continues to try to dissuade Israel from launching a major offensive against the southern Gaza city of Rafah, where more than a million civilians are sheltering.

Biden had issued an unusually sharp statement after the aid workers’ deaths criticizing Israel for not doing more to protect humanitarian workers and civilians and for refusing to allow more food into the Gaza Strip.

Trump has long labeled himself the most pro-Israel president in the nation’s history and often notes his decision to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem.

But Trump has also had a tense relationship with Netanyahu since he left the White House. Though the two were close allies for years, the former president responded with fury after the Israel leader congratulated then-president-elect Biden for winning the 2020 election while Trump was still trying to overturn the results.

In interviews for a book about his Middle East peace efforts, Trump, according to the author, used an expletive to describe Netanyahu, accused him of disloyalty and said he believed the Israeli leader never really wanted to make peace.

In the immediate aftermath of the October 7 attack by Hamas, Trump drew rare condemnation from his GOP rivals when he lashed out at Netanyahu, saying Israeli leaders needed to “step up their game” and that Netanyahu “was not prepared” for the terror onslaught that killed some 1,200 people. More than 250 people were also taken hostage.

At the time, Trump said that he supported the country’s efforts to “crush” Hamas.

Trump was also criticized by some in Israel for comments he made to the Israeli newspaper Israel Hayom last month calling for a swift end to the war.

“I will say Israel has to be very careful because you are losing a lot of the world. You are losing a lot of support,” he had warned.

Are you relying on The Times of Israel for accurate and timely coverage right now? If so, please joinThe Times of Israel Community.For as little as $6/month, you will:

We’re really pleased that you’ve readXTimes of Israel articlesin the past month.

That’s why we started the Times of Israel eleven years ago - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world.

So now we have a request.Unlike other news outlets, we haven’t put up a paywall. But as the journalism we do is costly, we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joiningThe Times of Israel Community.

For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of IsraelAD-FREE, as well as accessingexclusive contentavailable only to Times of Israel Community members.

Thank you,David Horovitz, Founding Editor of The Times of Israel

Former president said he was ‘the best friend Israel has ever had’ and attacked Biden’s foreign policy at Florida event on Wednesday

Donald Trump used the war in Israel to test new lines of attack against Joe Biden at a Republican event on Wednesday in Palm Beach, as his campaign sought to weaponize for political gainthe deepening conflictthat could still be raging around the time of the 2024 presidential election.

Theformer president’sextended remarks on Israel, at an event hosted by the longtime pro-Trump group Club 47, provided a clear insight into Trump’s intention to wield the war as a cudgel against Biden on touchstone foreign policy issues.

They also marked his most substantial remarks on the war since Hamas militants launched attacks against Israeli civilians over the weekend.

The wider question from the mini rally, which took place a short drive from his Mar-a-Lago club, was how the war in Israel might affect the dynamics of the 2024 election, in the way that the war in Ukraine unexpectedly became a lightning rod for Trump’s base in the Republican party.

Trump’s central theme during his one hour and 40 minute speech was that Biden was to blame for the increase in conflicts during his time in office, though the factual record supported little of his supposed arguments.

“Under my leadership the world was peaceful and calm because America was respected … with crookedJoe Biden, you have chaos, bloodshed, war, terror and death,” Trump said. “Joe Biden came along and tossed Israel to the bloodthirsty jihads,” Trump added without offering evidence.

Trump repeatedly mischaracterised the circumstances surrounding the $6bn in humanitarian aid to Iran that the US unfroze in exchange for five American prisoners, insinuating that those funds were then transferred by Iran to Hamas to fuel the attacks against Israel.

The problem with Trump’s line is, according to US officials, that none of that money has been released to date and remains in a bank account in Qatar controlled by the US Treasury, which has to approve every outflow.

Trump also claimed that he was “proud to be the best friend Israel has ever had”, only to then abruptly criticize Israel for their military intelligence capabilities and for “letting us down” by not participating in the US assassination of Iranian general Qasem Soleimani in 2020 during the Trump administration.

But the realities and nuances of Trump’s misstatements on Israel did not appear to register to much of the Make America Great Again crowd in attendance – an instructive barometer since top Republicans in Congress and on the campaign trial continue to read their vibes to navigate themselves through to the 2024 election.

Sign up toFirst Thing

Our US morning briefing breaks down the key stories of the day, telling you what’s happening and why it matters

after newsletter promotion

The event was mostly full of Trump’s base, which waited more than two hours before Trump took to the stage festooned with his preferred backdrop of dozens of American flags. They danced and cheered as they waited for Trump to appear around an hour late, according to the schedule.

Trump’s supporters also appeared detached from how his 2024 campaign and legal defenses have started converging as of late: lawyers for Trump’s co-defendants in the classified documents case are due in federal court Thursday at a hearing to sort out potential conflicts of interest issues.

The Florida congressman Matt Gaetz did not make an appearance at the Club 47 event, though he was billed as the other major speaker, having apparently cancelled after House Republicans convened on Capitol Hill to nominate a candidate for House Speakerafter Gaetz ousted Kevin McCarthy from the role last week.

Trump and Gaetz had both endorsed the Ohio congressman and House judiciary committee chairman Jim Jordan, but hours before his speech, the winner of the internal House GOP contest was the majority whip Steve Scalise, which Trump critics used to suggest his influence on Republicans could be waning.

FormerPresident Donald Trumplashed out Wednesday atBenjamin Netanyahu, saying the Israeli prime minister was caught unprepared byHamas’ attackand praising the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah as “very smart.”

The remarks reflect the soured relationship between the two men and are notable at a time when Trump’s Republican presidential rivals have uniformly sought to position themselves as steadfast supporters of Netanyahu during Israel’s war with Hamas.

“(Netanyahu) has been hurt very badly because of what’s happened here. He was not prepared. He was not prepared, and Israel was not prepared,” Trump told Fox News’ Brian Kilmeade in an interview clip that aired Wednesday night.

Trump went further at a campaign event in West Palm Beach, Florida.

“When I see sometimes the intelligence, you talk about the intelligence, or you talk about some of the things that went wrong over the last week, they’ve got to straighten it out because they’re fighting potentially a very big force,” Trump said Wednesday.

Israel hammers Gaza with airstrikes as Hamas' atrocities revealed

Regarding Hezbollah, which the US and its allieshave warned against escalatingthe current conflict, Trump said, “They’re vicious, and they’re smart. And, boy, are they vicious, because nobody’s ever seen the kind of sight that we’ve seen.”

The criticism is a stark reversal from the firm friendship Trump shared with Netanyahu while in office, embracing the Israeli leader at every turn. But it’s driven by animosity Trump has held for Netanyahu ever since the prime minister publicly acknowledged thatJoe Bidenwon the 2020 election. In the months that followed, Trump accused Netanyahu of disloyalty and fumed toAxios, “F*** him.”

Though Trump later congratulated Netanyahu after hereturned to power late last year, his hostility toward him has hardly waned, sources familiar with his thinking told CNN, and Trump maintains that Netanyahu shouldn’t have commented on Biden’s win. At the campaign event Wednesday night, Trump again resurfaced his false claims of election fraud and suggested that Hamas’ attack wouldn’t have happened if he were president.

“If the election wasn’t rigged, there would be nobody even thinking about going into Israel,” the former president told his supporters.

He also invoked the US government’s 2020 killing of top Iranian generalQasem Soleimaniand claimed Israel declined to participate in the strike.

“I’ll never forget that Bibi Netanyahu let us down. That was a very terrible thing, I will say that,” Trump said.

At the time, however, Netanyahupraised the strike, saying it was justified because Soleimani “was planning further attacks.”

When CNN pressed Netanyahu in his last interview with the network in September about whether the newfound hostility from Trump bothered him, the Israeli leader said, “I’ve been long enough in the political life to put aside the periodic ebb and flow of emotion and to look at the substantive positions that leaders and allies have done. … So, yeah, I don’t particularly care for that. I mean, I don’t care about it, is the way I would say it.”

In the interview with Fox’s Kilmeade, Trump would not say if he has spoken with Netanyahu in the days since the Hamas attack.

“I don’t want to say about, you know, who I’ve talked to. But I was very disappointed that a thing like this could happen,” the former president said.

Trump and his team were playing defense Thursday night, blasting out a series of statements praising the Trump administration’s work in the Middle East and relationship with Israel, after comments at a rally Wednesday sparked enormous backlash from both allies and adversaries.

“There was no better friend or ally of Israel than President Donald J. Trump,” Trump said a statement Thursday, adding: “Under my leadership, the United States stood in complete solidarity with Israel, and as a result, Israel was safe, America was safe, and for the first time in decades, we made historic strides for Peace in the Middle East.”

During what was intended to be a campaign speech highlighting Trump’s accomplishments in the Middle East and pledging his unequivocal support for Israel, Trump had veered off course Wednesday night.

Most of Trump’s closest advisers were not with him Wednesday night, but many watched live as he muddied the messaging on his achievements while in office with attacks that the Israeli prime minister was caught unprepared by Hamas’ attack.

Multiple sources acknowledged that it was immediately clear that his negative remarks would overshadow the point of the speech and receive backlash.

“Those comments received a lot more attention than other parts of his speech,” one Trump adviser said.

The adviser added that the purpose of the statement and talking points highlighting Trump’s past achievements on Israel that his campaign blasted out Thursday night was to serve “as a reminder” of where Trump stands. “I think a lot of that a lot of the accomplishments, they were overshadowed by some other things,” the adviser said.

Trump’s team also sent talking points to allies Thursday after the speech, pointing to his record in office and clarifying his remarks the night before.

“This was to highlight President Trump’s accomplishments during his first term and to reiterate everything that he’s done to bring peace to the Middle East and to foster a deeper relationship between Israel and the United States,” Trump campaign spokesman Steven Cheung told CNN in response to the statements the team sent out on Thursday.

One person close to Trump criticized the former president for bringing up the Soleimani strike.

“That was unnecessary, especially at this time. And it does nothing to show he’s with the people of Israel and Bibi,” the person said.

Multiple Trump advisers and allies said the former president had been telling this story in recent days as well as implying that Netanyahu was “weak” for missing the terrorists’ attack before it happened.

While in office, Trump and Netanyahu maintained a firm friendship and he was a vocal Netanyahu ally during his presidency. Sources, however, said that has changed since Trump left office.

“Trump’s relationship with Netanyahu has deteriorated since Trump lost. Couple that with a need to be a strongman in the face of what Trump probably sees as Biden admin weakness on terrorism, and you get comments like that,” a former Trump administration official told CNN.

While most of the 2024 GOP field has otherwise been reluctant to criticize Trump head on, a few contenders seized on his Wednesday remarks.

Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, who hasrecently escalated his attacksagainst Trump,posted on X, formerly known as Twitter: “(It) is absurd that anyone, much less someone running for president, would choose now to attack our friend and ally Israel, much less praise Hezbollah terrorists as ‘very smart.’”

Former Vice President Mike Pence also pushed back on his former boss’s remarks, saying, “Hezbollah aren’t smart, they’re evil.”

DeSantis goes off on Trump, says we don't need 'any more presidents' who've 'lost the zip on their fastball'

“This is no time for the former president, or any other American leader to be sending any message other than America stands with Israel,” Pence told a local New Hampshire radio show Thursday.

While Trump’s comments toward Netanyahu are personal, Israeli officials have acknowledged they werecaught by surprisewhen Hamas attacked. US officials have also said they did not see intelligence that this type of attack was going to unfold any more than the Israelis did.

“We were surprised this morning,” Lt. Col. Richard Hecht, the international spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces, told CNN on Saturday. “About failures, I prefer not to talk at this point right now. We’re in war. We’re fighting. I’m sure this will be a big question once this event is over.”

This story has been updated with additional information.

CNN’s Brian Rokus, David Wright and Veronica Stracqualursi contributed to this report.

© 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Former President Trump suggested in a new interview that the war between Israel and Hamas will just have to “play out” despite concerns about rising civilian casualties.

“So you have a war that’s going on, and you’re probably going to have to let this play out. You’re probably going to have to let it play out because a lot of people are dying,” Trump told Univision in an interview that aired Thursday night.

“It should have never started. There was no way it would have started again,” Trump added. “Iran didn’t have the money because Iran is leading this. And only fools would say that’s not true. They’re leading this. They’re very tricky, very smart, very cunning. They’re leading it, and it’s got to end.”

Trump argued the conflict between Israel and Hamas would not have broken out under his watch because of his hard-line approach to Iran. He also suggested the situation is made more difficult because of the “hatred” involved in the conflict.

“There is no hatred like the Palestinian hatred of Israel and Jewish people. And probably the other way around also; I don’t know,” Trump said. “You know, it’s not as obvious, but probably that’s it too. So sometimes you have to let things play out and you have to see where it ends.”

Hamas, a militant group that controls Gaza, launched terrorist attacks on Oct. 7 that killed more than 1,400 Israelis. In response, Israel has been shelling Gaza and carrying out airstrikes that have killed thousands of Palestinians living there and have displaced more than a million.

Trump has touted his support for Israel while he was president, pointing to his recognition of the Golan Heights territory and the relocation of the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, as well as the Abraham Accords, which normalized relations between Israel and several Arab nations.

But his comments following the Oct. 7 attacks have raised eyebrows. He has described Hezbollah, an Iran-backed terrorist group, as “very smart,” and he was critical of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu immediately after the attacks.

Trump told Univision that Israel “has to do a better job of public relations, frankly, because the other side is beating them at the public relations front.”

The Biden White House has been steadfast in its support of Israel and its right to respond to the Hamas terrorist attack, and President Biden traveled to Tel Aviv days after the attack. But officials have publicly and privately urged Israel to abide by the laws of war and try to minimize civilian casualties.

The rising humanitarian toll has led to calls from some progressive lawmakers and activists for a cease-fire. The Biden administration has rejected those calls, arguing it would benefit Hamas, and has instead pushed for humanitarian pauses to allow aid into Gaza and for hostages to get out. Israel this week agreed to limited pauses in parts of Gaza.

Other Republicans running for president offered up staunch support for Israel during Wednesday night’s primary debate, encouraging the Israelis to use force to wipe out Hamas and also suggesting Iran is central to the violence happening in the Middle East.

Copyright 2024 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

THE HILL 1625 K STREET, NW SUITE 900 WASHINGTON DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 TEL | 202-628-8503 FAX

© 1998 - 2024 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved.

The former president also called Israel's defense minister a "jerk."

In a rare move, the White House on Thursday publicly pushed back against former President Donald Trump after he labeled Israel's defense minister a "jerk" and also called theLebanese militant group Hezbollah"very smart."

Hamas,the Palestinian extremists who control Gazanext to southern Israel,launched a terror attack on the countryover the weekend, killing more than 1,200 people, officials have said.

Israellaunched a war in responseand has so far carried out a number of military strikes and operations on Gaza. More than 1,000 people have been killed in the territory, according to Palestinian officials.

Hezbollah, based out of Lebanon to the north of Israel, has fought with Israel before, underlining the concern that it could open up another front in the conflict. A senior U.S. defense official earlier this week told reporters that the Pentagon was "deeply concerned" about such a possibility. "We are working with Israel and with our partners across the region to contain this to Gaza," they said.

Trump referred to that in a campaign speech in Florida on Wednesday night.



"Two nights ago I read all of Biden’s security people ... they said, 'Gee, I hope Hezbollah doesn't attack from the north, because that's the most vulnerable spot.' I said, 'Wait a minute. You know, Hezbollah is very smart.' They're all very smart," Trump said, going on to add that "the press doesn't like when" he says things like that, as he has when praising the effectiveness of China's authoritarian President Xi Jinping.

Trump swiped at two top Israeli officials, Defense Minister Yoav Gallant and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, with whom Trump once appeared to be close.

"They [Israel] have a national defense minister ... if you listen to this jerk, you would attack from the north because he said that's our weak spot," Trump said.

Gallant's officereportedly said in responsethat Trump was making "far-fetched speculation" and attested to the military's strength.

Of Netanyahu, Trump said he "let us down" while talking about the U.S. killing of Iranian military officer Qassem Soleimani.

Biden spokesman Andrew Bates said in a Thursday statement that what Trump said about Hezbollah was "dangerous and unhinged."

"It's completely lost on us why any American would ever praise an Iran-backed terrorist organization as 'smart.' ... This is a time for all of us to stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel against 'unadulterated evil,'" Bates said.

Trump's comments also drew criticism from his former vice president, Mike Pence, who is challenging him for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination.

"Hezbollah aren't smart. They're evil," Pence said during a New Hampshire radio appearance on Thursday.

He added that Trump, the front-runner for the nomination so far, is "simply not expressing -- and his imitators in this primary are not expressing -- the same muscular American foreign policy that we lived out every day."

Another GOP presidential candidate, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, said in a statement on social media that "it is absurd that anyone, much less someone running for President, would choose now to attack our friend and ally, Israel, much less praise Hezbollah terrorists as 'very smart.' As President, I will stand with Israel and treat terrorists like the scum that they are."



In his campaign speech, Trump had touted "how much safer the world was" while he was in office while spending much of his nearly two-hour speech blaming the Biden administration for the Israel-Hamas conflict. He said that if reelected, he would seek to "permanently" destroy Hamas.

"I was ... proud to be the best friend Israel has ever had in the White House by far," he said.

Among other controversial claims, Trump alleged, with no evidence, that the Biden administration has been "inviting" in "terrorists and terrorist sympathizers" because former President Barack Obama is his "boss."

Trump then repeatedly said Obama's full name -- Barack Hussein Obama -- while invoking the "great [conservative radio host] Rush Limbaugh," who also referred to Obama that way.

It appeared be an incendiary attempt by Trump to link Obama with extremists by repeatedly bringing up Obama's middle name.

An Obama spokeswoman declined to comment to ABC News when asked for reaction to what Trump said.

In a statement, a Trump spokesman did not address his Obama remark but said, "President Trump was clearly pointing out how incompetent Biden and his administration were by telegraphing to the terrorists an area that is susceptible to an attack. Smart does not equal good. It just proves Biden is stupid."

In his speech, Trump criticized the Biden administration for freeing up $6 billion in Iranian oil revenue in the weeks before Hamas attacked Israel. That money was part of a deal to release five American detainees who were held in Iran.

Trump, as other Republicans have done, urged Biden to freeze the Iranian revenue. Trump called Biden a "dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb person."

On Thursday, ABC News reported that, according to sources, the fund has since essentially been blocked again.

"We have strict oversight of the funds and we retain the right to freeze them," Secretary of State Antony Blinken had said Thursday when asked by reporters about the Iraninan money while visiting Israel.

The Biden administration has responded to criticism over initially freeing up the money by saying it was being closely monitored, hadn't yet been disbursed and could only be used for humanitarian purposes. Skeptics of that view argue the money nonetheless eases broader financial pressures on Iran, which is a primary sponsor of Hamas.

Referring to the potential security and military failures that may have led up to Hamas' surprise assault on Israel, Trump said on Wednesday: "You talk about the intelligence or you're talking about some of the things that went wrong over the last week, they've got to straighten it out because they're fighting potentially a very big force."

Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C., another 2024 candidate, on Thursday said the former president’s comments about Netanyahu were "wrong" and said the new agreement on stopping access to the Iranian assets was insufficient.

In a radio interview on Thursday, amid the criticism, Trump shared his support for Israel. "They've been, you know, a part, really a part of this country, the fabric of what we stand for. We have to protect Israel. There's no choice."

ABC News' Gabriella Abdul-Hakim, Libby Cathey, Hannah Demissie, Fritz Farrow, Luis Martinze and Will McDuffie contributed to this report.

